UNIFIED_BACKBONE_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# Unified Backbone Integration Guide

## Overview

This guide explains how to integrate the **Unified Spatio-Temporal Backbone** into your existing SoccerNet pipeline **without changing the overall architecture**. The unified backbone replaces the separate `bbox_detector`, `pitch`, and `calibration` modules with a single, more efficient module.

## What Changes

### Before (Separate Modules)
```yaml
# Pipeline
pipeline:
  - bbox_detector      # YOLOv8
  - reid
  - track
  - pitch             # Pitch detection
  - calibration       # Camera calibration
  - jersey_number_detect
  - tracklet_agg
  - team
  - team_side

# Module configuration
modules:
  bbox_detector: {batch_size: 8}
  pitch: {batch_size: 1}
  calibration: {batch_size: 1}
```

### After (Unified Backbone)
```yaml
# Pipeline
pipeline:
  - unified_backbone  # Single module for detection + pitch + calibration
  - reid
  - track
  - jersey_number_detect
  - tracklet_agg
  - team
  - team_side

# Module configuration
modules:
  unified_backbone: 
    batch_size: 1
    backbone_type: "resnet50"
    temporal_frames: 5
    use_attention: true
```

## How to Use

### Option 1: Easy Switching (Recommended)

Use the configuration switcher script:

```bash
# Run the switcher
python switch_to_unified_backbone.py

# Choose option 1 to switch to unified backbone
# Then run your normal command
uv run tracklab -cn soccernet
```

### Option 2: Manual Configuration

1. **Backup your current config:**
   ```bash
   cp sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml.backup
   ```

2. **Replace the config:**
   ```bash
   cp sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet_unified.yaml sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml
   ```

3. **Run normally:**
   ```bash
   uv run tracklab -cn soccernet
   ```

### Option 3: Use Alternative Config

Use the unified configuration directly:

```bash
uv run tracklab -cn soccernet_unified
```

## Benefits

- **Same Command**: Still use `uv run tracklab -cn soccernet`
- **Better Performance**: ~1.9x faster inference
- **Less Memory**: ~33% reduction in memory usage
- **Same Output**: Compatible with existing pipeline
- **Easy Rollback**: Can switch back anytime

## Configuration Options

The unified backbone supports these configuration options:

```yaml
modules:
  unified_backbone:
    batch_size: 1                    # Batch size for processing
    backbone_type: "resnet50"        # "resnet50" or "efficientnet"
    temporal_frames: 5               # Number of temporal frames
    use_attention: true              # Enable attention mechanisms
    detection_threshold: 0.5         # Detection confidence threshold
    pitch_threshold: 0.3             # Pitch detection threshold
```

## Switching Back

If you want to use the original separate modules:

```bash
# Use the switcher script
python switch_to_unified_backbone.py
# Choose option 2

# Or manually restore
cp sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml.backup sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml
```

## Testing

Test the unified backbone:

```bash
# Run tests
python -m pytest sn_gamestate/tests/test_unified_backbone.py -v

# Test with small dataset
uv run tracklab -cn soccernet dataset.nvid=1
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **CUDA Out of Memory**
   ```bash
   # Reduce batch size or temporal frames
   uv run tracklab -cn soccernet modules.unified_backbone.batch_size=1 modules.unified_backbone.temporal_frames=3
   ```

2. **Slow Performance**
   ```bash
   # Use EfficientNet backbone
   uv run tracklab -cn soccernet modules.unified_backbone.backbone_type=efficientnet
   ```

3. **Configuration Errors**
   ```bash
   # Restore original config
   python switch_to_unified_backbone.py
   # Choose option 4
   ```

## File Structure

```
sn_gamestate/
├── configs/
│   ├── soccernet.yaml              # Main config (can be switched)
│   ├── soccernet_unified.yaml      # Unified backbone config
│   ├── soccernet_unified_option.yaml # Alternative unified config
│   └── modules/calibration/
│       └── unified_backbone.yaml   # Module config
├── calibration/
│   └── unified_backbone.py         # Implementation
└── switch_to_unified_backbone.py   # Configuration switcher
```

## Summary

The unified backbone integration:
- ✅ **Keeps your existing pipeline structure**
- ✅ **Uses the same command**: `uv run tracklab -cn soccernet`
- ✅ **Improves performance** significantly
- ✅ **Easy to switch** between approaches
- ✅ **Easy to rollback** if needed

You get all the benefits of the unified backbone without changing your workflow!

Commit message:

Improve configuration switcher scripts and documentation
- Fix interactive switcher to ask if user wants to exit after switching
- Add simple one-shot switcher script that exits automatically
- Update integration guide to mention both scripts
- Make switching process clearer and more user-friendly

UNIFIED_BACKBONE_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# Unified Backbone Integration Guide

## Overview

This guide explains how to integrate the **Unified Spatio-Temporal Backbone** into your existing SoccerNet pipeline **without changing the overall architecture**. The unified backbone replaces the separate `bbox_detector`, `pitch`, and `calibration` modules with a single, more efficient module.

## What Changes

### Before (Separate Modules)
```yaml
# Pipeline
pipeline:
  - bbox_detector      # YOLOv8
  - reid
  - track
  - pitch             # Pitch detection
  - calibration       # Camera calibration
  - jersey_number_detect
  - tracklet_agg
  - team
  - team_side

# Module configuration
modules:
  bbox_detector: {batch_size: 8}
  pitch: {batch_size: 1}
  calibration: {batch_size: 1}
```

### After (Unified Backbone)
```yaml
# Pipeline
pipeline:
  - unified_backbone  # Single module for detection + pitch + calibration
  - reid
  - track
  - jersey_number_detect
  - tracklet_agg
  - team
  - team_side

# Module configuration
modules:
  unified_backbone: 
    batch_size: 1
    backbone_type: "resnet50"
    temporal_frames: 5
    use_attention: true
    detection_threshold: 0.5
    pitch_threshold: 0.3
```

## How to Use

### Option 1: Simple One-Shot Switch (Recommended)

Use the simple switcher script that switches and exits automatically:

```bash
# Run the simple switcher
python switch_to_unified_backbone_simple.py

# The script will switch to unified backbone and exit
# Then run your normal command
uv run tracklab -cn soccernet
```

### Option 2: Interactive Switching

Use the interactive configuration switcher script:

```bash
# Run the interactive switcher
python switch_to_unified_backbone.py

# Choose option 1 to switch to unified backbone
# Choose 'y' when asked if you want to exit
# Then run your normal command
uv run tracklab -cn soccernet
```

### Option 3: Manual Configuration

1. **Backup your current config:**
   ```bash
   cp sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml.backup
   ```

2. **Replace the config:**
   ```bash
   cp sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet_unified.yaml sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml
   ```

3. **Run normally:**
   ```bash
   uv run tracklab -cn soccernet
   ```

### Option 4: Use Alternative Config

Use the unified configuration directly:

```bash
uv run tracklab -cn soccernet_unified
```

## Benefits

- **Same Command**: Still use `uv run tracklab -cn soccernet`
- **Better Performance**: ~1.9x faster inference
- **Less Memory**: ~33% reduction in memory usage
- **Same Output**: Compatible with existing pipeline
- **Easy Rollback**: Can switch back anytime

## Configuration Options

The unified backbone supports these configuration options:

```yaml
modules:
  unified_backbone:
    batch_size: 1                    # Batch size for processing
    backbone_type: "resnet50"        # "resnet50" or "efficientnet"
    temporal_frames: 5               # Number of temporal frames
    use_attention: true              # Enable attention mechanisms
    detection_threshold: 0.5         # Detection confidence threshold
    pitch_threshold: 0.3             # Pitch detection threshold
```

## Switching Back

If you want to use the original separate modules:

```bash
# Use the interactive switcher script
python switch_to_unified_backbone.py
# Choose option 2

# Or manually restore
cp sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml.backup sn_gamestate/configs/soccernet.yaml
```

## Testing

Test the unified backbone:

```bash
# Run tests
python -m pytest sn_gamestate/tests/test_unified_backbone.py -v

# Test with small dataset
uv run tracklab -cn soccernet dataset.nvid=1
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **CUDA Out of Memory**
   ```bash
   # Reduce batch size or temporal frames
   uv run tracklab -cn soccernet modules.unified_backbone.batch_size=1 modules.unified_backbone.temporal_frames=3
   ```

2. **Slow Performance**
   ```bash
   # Use EfficientNet backbone
   uv run tracklab -cn soccernet modules.unified_backbone.backbone_type=efficientnet
   ```

3. **Configuration Errors**
   ```bash
   # Restore original config
   python switch_to_unified_backbone.py
   # Choose option 4
   ```

## File Structure

```
sn_gamestate/
├── configs/
│   ├── soccernet.yaml              # Main config (can be switched)
│   ├── soccernet_unified.yaml      # Unified backbone config
│   ├── soccernet_unified_option.yaml # Alternative unified config
│   └── modules/calibration/
│       └── unified_backbone.yaml   # Module config
├── calibration/
│   └── unified_backbone.py         # Implementation
├── switch_to_unified_backbone.py   # Interactive configuration switcher
└── switch_to_unified_backbone_simple.py # Simple one-shot switcher
```

## Summary

The unified backbone integration:
- ✅ **Keeps your existing pipeline structure**
- ✅ **Uses the same command**: `uv run tracklab -cn soccernet`
- ✅ **Improves performance** significantly
- ✅ **Easy to switch** between approaches
- ✅ **Easy to rollback** if needed

You get all the benefits of the unified backbone without changing your workflow!
